docs/firmware-files.md, before:

# Authoring firmware definition files

## Directory structure

The files belong into the `firmware` directory, organized by manufacturer or brand. The following naming schemes are suggested:

```
firmwares/<brand>/<model>[_<version-or-range>].json
firmwares/<manufacturer_name>/<brand>_<model>[_<version-or-range>].json
```

where `<brand>` and `<model>` should be relatable to the corresponding entries in the JSON files. `[_<version-or-range>]` is optional (denoted by the square brackets) and should only be present for files that apply to a subset of firmware versions.
Filenames should not contain spaces or any special characters and they MUST end in `.json`.

For example:

```
coolio/z-dim7.json
coolioproducts/coolio_z-dim7_1.1-1.6.json
```

## File format

When using VSCode, the files will automatically be validated against a JSON Schema. This way you can spot errors directly while working on them:

<p align="center">
	<img src="json_schema.png" alt="Example of an error detected by the JSON Schema" />
</p>

### Defining which devices a definition file applies to

Each `"devices"` entry defines a single device for which this file contains the available firmware updates. A file can contain on or more of these entries:

```jsonc
{
	"devices": [
		{
			// Definition for device #1

			// The brand and model are used to display the information to end users
			// and allow them to double-check
			"brand": "Coolio",
			"model": "Z-Dim 7",

			// These fields are the ones returned by Manufacturer Specific CC
			// and they are required to identify a device
			"manufacturerId": "0x1234",
			"productType": "0xabcd",
			"productId": "0xcafe",

			// The firmware version range is optional, the default is 0.0 - 255.255
			// (matches all CURRENT firmwares)
			// This can be used to split the definitions into multiple files

			// The `firmwareVersion` field may also contain a patch version, e.g. `1.6.1`.
			// When no patch version is provided, it will be assumed to be `0`,
			// so `1.6` is equivalent to `1.6.0`.
			"firmwareVersion": {
				"min": "0.0",
				"max": "255.255"
			}
		},
		{
			// ... definition for device #2
		}
	]

	// Rest of the file
}
```

### Defining the possible upgrades for a device

Each entry in `"upgrades"` defines a single available firmware update for ALL devices matched by the above rules. A file can contain on or more of these entries.

```jsonc
{
	"devices": [
		// ...
	],

	"upgrades": [
		{
			// The version field MUST indicate the version of the NEW firmware
			"version": "1.7",
			// The changelog field will be displayed to the user and is purely informational
			"changelog": "* Fixed some bugs\n*Added more bugs",

			// Optionally define the target chip this upgrade is for.
			// If not defined, target 0 will be assumed
			"target": 0,

			// The url MUST point to a publicly downloadable file in one of the supported
			// formats, e.g. ota, otz, hex, hec, gbl, etc.
			// Z-Wave JS will download this in the background when doing an upgrade.
			"url": "https://example.com/firmware/1.7.otz",
			// The integrity field contains a hash of the the raw firmware data as a
			// hexadecimal string and is used to verify that the correct file was downloaded.
			// The prefix indicates the hash algorithm, e.g. "sha256:" for SHA256.
			// At the moment, only SHA256 is supported.
			"integrity": "sha256:cd19da525f20096a817197bf263f3fdbe6485f00ec7354b691171358ebb9f1a1"
		}
		// ... more firmware updates for the same file
	]
}
```

Devices with multiple firmware targets can define multiple downloads in a single entry. The updates are applied in the order they are defined.

```jsonc
{
	"devices": [
		// ...
	],

	"upgrades": [
		{
			"version": "1.7",
			"changelog": "* Fixed some bugs\n*Added more bugs",

			"files": [
				// Update chip 1 first
				{
					"target": 1,
					"url": "https://example.com/firmware/1.7_target1.otz",
					"integrity": "..."
				},
				// then chip 0
				{
					"target": 0,
					"url": "https://example.com/firmware/1.7_target0.otz",
					"integrity": "..."
				}
			]
		}
	]
}
```

Each entry can further limit the conditions under which it is applicable. Non-matching upgrades will not be offered.

The syntax is the same as in https://zwave-js.github.io/node-zwave-js/#/config-files/conditional-settings?id=conditional-configuration-settings

For example, the following upgrade only applies if the device currently has firmware 1.1 - 1.6 and the product ID `0xcafe`:

```jsonc
{
	"devices": [
		// ...
	],

	"upgrades": [
		{
			"$if": "firmwareVersion >= 1.1 && firmwareVersion < 1.7 && productId === 0xcafe",

			"version": "1.19",
			"changelog": "* Fixed some bugs\n*Added more bugs"

			// ...
		}
	]
}
```

### Some more rules

The filename for each download must be provided using the HTTP-Header

```
Content-Disposition: attachment; filename="firmware.otz"
```

or included in the URL itself, e.g. https://example.com/firmware.otz.

The integrity hash must be generated using the raw firmware data as it will be transferred to the device. If the firmware file is Intel HEX encoded or similar, this must be the hash of the decoded data.

Commit message:

docs: be more specific with requirements

docs/firmware-files.md, after:

# Authoring firmware definition files

## Directory structure

The files belong into the `firmware` directory, organized by manufacturer or brand. The following naming schemes are suggested:

```
firmwares/<brand>/<model>[_<version-or-range>].json
firmwares/<manufacturer_name>/<brand>_<model>[_<version-or-range>].json
```

where `<brand>` and `<model>` should be relatable to the corresponding entries in the JSON files. `[_<version-or-range>]` is optional (denoted by the square brackets) and should only be present for files that apply to a subset of firmware versions.
Filenames should not contain spaces or any special characters and they MUST end in `.json`.

For example:

```
coolio/z-dim7.json
coolioproducts/coolio_z-dim7_1.1-1.6.json
```

## File format

When using VSCode, the files will automatically be validated against a JSON Schema. This way you can spot errors directly while working on them:

<p align="center">
	<img src="json_schema.png" alt="Example of an error detected by the JSON Schema" />
</p>

### Defining which devices a definition file applies to

Each `"devices"` entry defines a single device for which this file contains the available firmware updates. A file can contain on or more of these entries:

```jsonc
{
	"devices": [
		{
			// Definition for device #1

			// The brand and model are used to display the information to end users
			// and allow them to double-check
			"brand": "Coolio",
			"model": "Z-Dim 7",

			// These fields are the ones returned by Manufacturer Specific CC
			// and they are required to identify a device
			"manufacturerId": "0x1234",
			"productType": "0xabcd",
			"productId": "0xcafe",

			// The firmware version range is optional, the default is 0.0 - 255.255
			// (matches all CURRENT firmwares)
			// This can be used to split the definitions into multiple files

			// The `firmwareVersion` field may also contain a patch version, e.g. `1.6.1`.
			// When no patch version is provided, it will be assumed to be `0`,
			// so `1.6` is equivalent to `1.6.0`.
			"firmwareVersion": {
				"min": "0.0",
				"max": "255.255"
			}
		},
		{
			// ... definition for device #2
		}
	]

	// Rest of the file
}
```

### Defining the possible upgrades for a device

Each entry in `"upgrades"` defines a single available firmware update for ALL devices matched by the above rules. A file can contain on or more of these entries.

```jsonc
{
	"devices": [
		// ...
	],

	"upgrades": [
		{
			// The version field MUST indicate the version of the NEW firmware
			"version": "1.7",
			// The changelog field will be displayed to the user and is purely informational
			"changelog": "* Fixed some bugs\n*Added more bugs",

			// Optionally define the target chip this upgrade is for.
			// If not defined, target 0 will be assumed
			"target": 0,

			// The url MUST point to a publicly downloadable file in one of the supported
			// formats, e.g. ota, otz, hex, hec, gbl, etc.
			// Z-Wave JS will download this in the background when doing an upgrade.
			"url": "https://example.com/firmware/1.7.otz",
			// The integrity field contains a hash of the the raw firmware data as a
			// hexadecimal string and is used to verify that the correct file was downloaded.
			// The prefix indicates the hash algorithm, e.g. "sha256:" for SHA256.
			// At the moment, only SHA256 is supported.
			"integrity": "sha256:cd19da525f20096a817197bf263f3fdbe6485f00ec7354b691171358ebb9f1a1"
		}
		// ... more firmware updates for the same file
	]
}
```

The changelog MUST NOT be a link. Instead, the changelog text MUST be included in the upgrade definition. It MUST be plaintext or Markdown, encoded so it is a valid JSON string.

The integrity hash must be generated using the raw firmware data as it will be transferred to the device. If the firmware file is Intel HEX encoded or similar, this must be the hash of the **decoded** data. We've provided a small utility to do this for you, which just requires [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) 16.9 or newer to be installed. Then you can run one of the following commands (replace `<url>` or `<file>` with the URL or path to the file):

```sh
npx @zwave-js/firmware-integrity <url>
npx @zwave-js/firmware-integrity <file>
```

and the tool will output the integrity string. More information can be found at https://github.com/zwave-js/firmware-integrity.

### Multiple firmware upgrades

Devices with multiple firmware targets can define multiple downloads in a single entry. The updates are applied in the order they are defined.

```jsonc
{
	"devices": [
		// ...
	],

	"upgrades": [
		{
			"version": "1.7",
			"changelog": "* Fixed some bugs\n*Added more bugs",

			"files": [
				// Update chip 1 first
				{
					"target": 1,
					"url": "https://example.com/firmware/1.7_target1.otz",
					"integrity": "..."
				},
				// then chip 0
				{
					"target": 0,
					"url": "https://example.com/firmware/1.7_target0.otz",
					"integrity": "..."
				}
			]
		}
	]
}
```

Each entry can further limit the conditions under which it is applicable. Non-matching upgrades will not be offered.

The syntax is the same as in https://zwave-js.github.io/node-zwave-js/#/config-files/conditional-settings?id=conditional-configuration-settings

For example, the following upgrade only applies if the device currently has firmware 1.1 - 1.6 and the product ID `0xcafe`:

```jsonc
{
	"devices": [
		// ...
	],

	"upgrades": [
		{
			"$if": "firmwareVersion >= 1.1 && firmwareVersion < 1.7 && productId === 0xcafe",

			"version": "1.19",
			"changelog": "* Fixed some bugs\n*Added more bugs"

			// ...
		}
	]
}
```

### Some more rules

The filename for each download must be provided using the HTTP-Header

```
Content-Disposition: attachment; filename="firmware.otz"
```

or included in the URL itself, e.g. https://example.com/firmware.otz.
